In addition to the interactions in yeast, we performed co-immunoprecipitation experiments with epitope-tagged full-length proteins.
The HA-tagged BLH proteins shown in Figure 2B were used to co-precipitate epitope-tagged STM-His (Figure 2C).
The detection of the STM-His protein was strictly dependent on the presence of BLH partner proteins.
The co-immunoprecipitation experiments therefore confirm that the full-length STM protein interacts with full-length ATH1, BLH3 and BLH9 proteins in vitro and substantiate the affinity of BLH/STM interactions.To examine the RNA dependence of protein–protein interactions, TCEs (250 μg) were treated before immunoprecipitation with 0.2 μg/ul of RNase A for 20 min at room temperature.
Myc-tagged proteins were precipitated by incubating overnight with polyclonal rabbit anti-Myc antibodies directly conjugated to agarose beads (Santa Cruz Biotech, California, United States).HeLa cells were transiently co-transfected for 48 hours with 8 μg of plasmid constructs encoding Flag-tagged full-length Bcl-GL or a series of Flag-tagged partial Bcl-GL proteins (FL, N-1, N-2, N-3, N-4, C-1, C-2 and C-3) as well as the same amount of plasmid encoding HA-tagged WT-MELK, using the FuGENE6 transfection reagent (Roche).
Cells were lysed with lysis buffer as described above.
The lysates were pre-cleaned with normal mouse IgG (1.2 μg) and rec-Protein G Sepharose 4B (Zymed, San Francisco, CA, USA) at 4°C for 30 minutes.
Subsequently, the lysate was incubated with anti-Flag agarose M2 gel (Sigma-Aldrich) at 4°C for 12 hours.
After washing three times with lysis buffer, proteins on beads were eluted with SDS sample buffer.
To validate an interaction between WT-MELK and Bcl-GL, we constructed plasmids designed to express HA-tagged WT-MELK (HA-WT-MELK) and Flag-tagged Bcl-GL (Flag-Bcl-GL).
These plasmids were co-transfected into HeLa cells and the proteins immunoprecipitated with anti-Flag antibody.
Immunoblotting of the precipitates using anti-HA antibodies indicated that Flag-Bcl-GL was co-precipitated with HA-WT-MELK (Figure 3c).
To further determine which segment of Bcl-GL can interact with WT-MELK, we performed co-immunoprecipitation analyses using HA-WT-MELK and partial Bcl-GL proteins tagged with Flag (Figure 3e).
After co-transfection of plasmid clones into HeLa cells, we performed immunoprecipitation with an anti-Flag antibody, and then immunoblotting with an anti-HA antibody.
(c) Interaction of MELK with Bcl-GL.
Extracts from HeLa-cells transfected with HA (hemagglutinin)-tagged WT-MELK (HA-WT-MELK) or Flag-tagged Bcl-GL (Flag-Bcl-GL), or a combination of these, were harvested 36 hours after transfection.
The cell lysates were immunoprecipitated with anti-Flag M2 antibody.
Precipitated proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE and western blotting analysis was performed with an anti-HA antibody.
(f) Determination of the WT-MELK binding regions of Bcl-GL by immunoprecipitation.
The HA-tagged WT-MELK and various peptide sequences of Flag-tagged Bcl-GL (Figure 3e) were pulled down by immunoprecipitation with Flag-M2 antibody and then immunoblotted with rabbit anti-Flag antibody.
The expression of HA-tagged WT-MELK in total cell lysates was confirmed by western blotting analysis.
As a control, immunoprecipitation was performed from cells co-transfected with pCAGGSn3FC (Mock) and HA-tagged WT-MELK (HA-WT-MELK) through all steps.PP1 has 3 isoforms encoded by different genes that are 97% conserved across their catalytic domains and distinct roles for each isoform have yet to be determined.
When we coimmunoprecipitated Flag-epitope tagged PP1α, β or γ with BRCA1, we observed that all 3 isoforms interacted with BRCA1.
Additionally, we have identified the functional PP1 interacting domain within BRCA1.
This domain is found in other PP1 regulatory proteins, suggesting that BRCA1 may regulate the activity of PP1 and could act as a scaffold protein to promote the dephosphorylation of BRCA1 associated proteins by PP1.To probe for a possible signaling complex including the β1AR and a PDE, mouse neonatal cardiomyocytes were infected with an adenovirus encoding a Flag-tagged β1AR, and the receptor was subsequently immunoprecipitated using an antibody against the tag.
A significant amount of endogenous PDE activity was recovered in the β1AR immunoprecipitation (IP) pellet (Figure 1A).
(B) Co-IP of β1AR and PDE activity from cardiomyocytes deficient in PDE4A, PDE4B, or PDE4D, and wild-type controls.
(A, B) Co-IP of exogenous β1AR and Myc-tagged PDE4D splice variants expressed in HEK293 cells.
The efficiency with which β1AR pulls down the different PDE4D splice variants is quantified in (B).
(C) Shown is the co-IP of exogenous β1AR and PDE4D8-Myc from extracts of MEFs derived from mice deficient in β-arrestin 1 and 2 (βarr1/2KO) or from wild-type controls (WT-MEF).
(D, E) PDE4D3, and Flag-tagged receptors, β1AR and β2AR, were affinity purified after baculovirus expression (see Supplementary Figure 1).
Purified PDE and (βARs) were then combined and the βARs immunoprecipitated.
(A, B) Neonatal cardiac myocytes expressing a Flag-tagged β1AR were treated for 3 min with 100 nM Norepinephrine before cell lysis and IP with M1 (α-Flag) resin.
The effect of a 5 min pre-treatment with 10 μM of the PDE4-specific inhibitor, Rolipram, or the PDE3-selective inhibitor, Cilostamide, on PKA-phosphorylation of the β1AR is detected in IBs using a PKA-site-specific antibody.
(C, D) MEFs derived from mice deficient in PDE4D or wild-type controls were infected with adenovirus to express a Flag-tagged β1AR construct.
At 40 h post-infection, cells were treated for 3 min with 100 nM Norepinephrine (NorEpi) before cell lysis and IP with M1 (α-Flag) resin.
PKA-phosphorylation of the β1AR is detected in IB using a PKA-site-specific antibody.
(E, F) Neonatal cardiac myocytes coexpressing a Flag-tagged β1AR and either GFP, a catalytically inactive PDE4D8 construct (PDE4D-DN; see also Supplementary Figure 5), or a catalytically inactive PDE3A1 (PDE3A1-DN) were subjected to α-Flag(M1)-IP, and the phosphorylation of the β1AR was subsequently detected in IB using a PKA-substrate-specific antibody.Co-immunoprecipitation assays were used to confirm the protein–protein interactions.
Subsequently, localization of ACBP4 and its interacting protein, AtEBP, was confirmed using transient expression of GFP- and DsRed-tagged fusion proteins in Nicotiana tabacum.The abnormal cross-linking of basal transcription factors in ctk1Δ cells is confirmed by independent immunoprecipitation of TAP-tagged TFIIF subunits.