In a yeast two-hybrid screen performed with a meristem-enriched cDNA library, three interacting BLH (Bel1-like homeodomain) transcription factors were identified.
We initiated a search for potential STM interaction partner genes starting from a yeast two-hybrid screen performed with the MEINOXSTM domain as bait for a meristem-enriched cDNA library.
The Matchmaker GAL4 system (Clontech) was used to perform the yeast two-hybrid screen. As bait the sequences encoding the MEINOXSTM domain (amino acids 116–220 of the STM protein) or the slightly longer MEINOX-ELKSTM (amino acids 116–287) domain were cloned into the vector pGBKT7 (Clontech) and expressed in fusion with the GAL4 DNA-binding domain. Directional cloning of PCR fragments was performed by the addition of in-frame NcoI or BamH1 restriction sites to gene-specific PCR primers.
The meristem-enriched cDNA library in the vector pACT2 (Clonetech) was prepared from immature inflorescence shoots (Lumbrineris erecta, 4–5 mm size) containing inflorescence and multiple floral meristems (FMs). cDNA synthesis exactly followed the manual for the cDNA synthesis kit (Stratagene). Directional cloning into pACT2 was achieved via an XhoI site addition to the oligo-dT primer (3′) and an EcoRI adapter at the cDNA 5′-terminus. The cDNA library (1.25 × 106 clones) was colony amplified in Escherichia coli, plasmid DNA purified by CsCl2-gradient centrifugation and used for yeast transformation (strain AH109). Screening of the library followed the Matchmaker manual applying quadruple selection (HIS3, ADE2, LacZ and MEL1). In total 2.5 × 106 colonies were screened for encoded polypeptides which interact with the MEINOX-ELKSTM domain. Positive clones (223) were isolated and cDNA inserts in pACT2 were subjected to N-terminal sequence analysis. The specificity of each protein interaction was confirmed by retransformation of sequence-verified cDNA clones (ATH1, BHL3 or BHL9) into yeast strains providing the MEINOXSTM or MEINOXBP1 bait constructs in pGDKT7. No interaction was observed with the empty pACT2 prey vector.
As a prerequisite to substantiate interactions between potential partner proteins identified in a yeast two-hybrid screen, C- and N-terminal fusions between the ORFs of STM and the GFP were constructed and expressed in leek or onion epidermal cells after particle bombardment.
Potential STM protein interaction partners were identified in a yeast two-hybrid screen performed with a meristem-enriched cDNA library (Materials and Methods) established in the vector pACT2 (prey) and the MEINOXSTM domain as a bait expressed from the pGDKT7 vector. In total 223 positive clones were identified and all were annotated as ORFs in the Arabidopsis genome.
In contrast to bombardments with the ATH1 and BLH3 constructs, the number of BiFC-positive cells obtained with the BLH9/STM combination (e.g. BLH9-NYFP/STM-CYFP in Figure 4C) was generally low. This may indicate a weak interaction between STM and BLH9 as suggested by the yeast two-hybrid results, that chimeric BLH9-NYFP protein levels remain low in leak epidermal cells, or that steric constraints interfere with a reconstitution of YFP fluorescence.To identify novel integrin-interacting proteins, we screened a mouse embryonic cDNA library using α2-integrin cytoplasmic domain as bait in a yeast two-hybrid screen. The bait comprised the conserved membrane-proximal sequence shared by most α-integrin subunits followed by the α2-specific segment. Several positive clones encoded the COOH-terminal part of Rab21. Rab21 is a ubiquitously expressed and poorly characterized member of the Rab family that has recently been shown to function on the endocytic pathway (Simpson et al., 2004).
To get evidence for the association with an independent method, we performed yeast two-hybrid studies with α-tail mutants. In remating tests, we found that the COOH-terminal part of Rab21 (amino acids 95–222) was able to associate with the cytoplasmic tails of α2- and α11-integrin (Fig. 1 D).
Mutagenesis of residue R1161 (in α2AA and α2AAKYA, removing another conserved charged residue) to alanine significantly reduced α2 tail association with Rab21 judged by yeast mating tests and immunoprecipitations (Fig. 1, D and E). In addition, F1159A mutation (α2AARA, possibly creating a conformational change) showed reduced association in the yeast assays, whereas in immunoprecipitations the reduction was not significant. These data on the mutant integrins suggest that the conformation of the cytoplasmic domain and residue R1161 of α2-integrin are important for the Rab21 association.
(D) α2- and α11-integrin cytoplasmic domains and their point mutants (indicated in bold) were cloned as Gal4BD fusions and used as baits with Rab21 (amino acids 95–222) Gal4AD prey in yeast two-hybrid assays.
Our data does not unambiguously show whether integrins and Rabs interact directly. The facts that the association was detected from a yeast two-hybrid screen and that it is abrogated by mutagenesis of the α-cytoplasmic domain suggest that it may be direct.
The α2-integrin COOH-terminal tail (28 residues) Gal4 DNA binding domain fusion (pGBKT7 vector) was used to screen a mouse E17 Matchmaker cDNA library (CLONTECH Laboratories, Inc.) as described previously (Mattila et al., 2005). In yeast mating tests, pGADT7-Rab21 (95–222) prey was transformed in Y187 host strain and cytoplasmic tails of α2- and α11-integrin (pGBKT7-α2 and -α11) and their variants in AH109 host strain. Point mutants were generated with the QuikChange Site-directed mutagenesis kit and confirmed by sequencing. The negative and positive controls in yeast mating tests were pGBKT7-53/pGADT7-T and pGBKT7/pGADT7, respectively.Here we show that Abp1 interacts with the DNA replication protein Cdc23 (MCM10) in a two-hybrid assay, and that the Δabp1 mutant displays a synthetic phenotype with a cdc23 temperature-sensitive mutant.
Two-hybrid analysis also shows that Cdc23 (Mcm10) can interact with Orc1, 2, 5, and 6 [28,36].
Using a two-hybrid system, we have identified Abp1 as a protein that interacts with Cdc23 (Mcm10).
To provide additional insights into how Cdc23 (Mcm10) might function during DNA replication initiation, we conducted a two-hybrid interaction screen to identify cDNAs encoding proteins that interact with Cdc23 (Mcm10). One of the proteins identified several times in our screen was ARS-binding protein 1 (Abp1), a protein previously shown to interact with both replication origins and centromere-associated DNA sequence elements. Cdc23 (Mcm10) fused to the DNA binding domain of Gal4 was able to activate lacZ expression from the GAL1 promoter when co-expressed with Abp1 fused to the Gal4 activation domain (Fig. 1A, row 1). As a negative control, when Abp1 was replaced with either Skb1 or Snf4 no LacZ expression was observed (Figure 1A, rows 2 and 3). The two-hybrid interaction between Snf1 and Snf4 is shown as a positive control (Figure 1A, row 4). These two transcription factors have been previously shown to interact using the two-hybrid assay (Durfee et al, 1993).
Cdc23 physically interacts with Abp1 in a yeast two-hybrid cDNA library screen. Row 1: Cdc23-Abp1 interaction; rows2, 3: negative controls; row 4: Snf1/Snf4 positive control. (A). β-galactosidase assay. (B). HIS3 expression in the presence of 50 mM 3-AT. All experiments shown in triplicate.
Consistent with the lacZ data, Cdc23 (Mcm10) fused to the DNA binding domain of Gal4 activated HIS3 under the control of the Gal4 promoter when co-expressed with Abp1 fused to the Gal4 activation domain (Figure 1B, row 1). Co-expression with either Skb1 or Snf4 failed to activate HIS3 (Figure 1B, row 2 and 3) suggesting that the interaction of Cdc23 and Abp1 in the two-hybrid system is specific. As expected, the positive control, Snf1/Snf4 was also able to confer HIS prototrophy (Figure 1B, row 4).
We found that the double mutant cdc23-M36 Δabp1 is less viable then either cdc23-M36 or Δabp1 when grown at 30°C (Figure 3A, lower panel, row 4), consistent with our two-hybrid data suggesting that Cdc23 (Mcm10) interacts directly with Abp1.
In an attempt to gain some insights into the function of Cdc23, we conducted a two-hybrid screen for Cdc23-interacting proteins. One of the proteins identified using this screen is Abp1, a protein that had previously been shown to bind to both ARS elements and centromeric DNA sequences. Although its primary function is thought be in chromosome segregation, we show that Abp1 may also have an additional role in DNA replication initiation.We performed a yeast two-hybrid study to identify proteins that interact with exon11 of BRCA1 and identified Protein Phosphatase 1β (PP1β), an isoform of the serine threonine phosphatase, PP1.
We have used a yeast two-hybrid assay to detect proteins that interact with exon11 of BRCA1. This large exon encodes roughly 60% of the protein, and we wished to identify potentially important interacting proteins outside of the intensely studied RING and C-terminal regions of BRCA1.
We performed a yeast two-hybrid assay to identify proteins that interact with exon11 of BRCA1. In this study, 9 putative positives were identified including PP1β, an isoform of the serine/threonine phosphatase PP1 (not shown). These initial yeast two-hybrid studies led to further examination on the interaction of BRCA1 with PP1β.
We performed a yeast two-hybrid study to identify proteins that interact with exon11 of BRCA1. The region of BRCA1 encoded by exon 11 is known to interact with a number of proteins involved in DNA repair [23], as well as γ-tubulin [3] and several kinases including Aurora-A kinase [24] and ChkII [25]. Identification of additional interacting partners, particularly ones that could modify the activity of a BRCA1 through changes in phosphorylation, may further aid in clarifying its function and regulation. In this yeast two-hybrid study, we identified the serine/threonine phosphatase PP1β as a BRCA1 interacting protein, which could have important consequences on both the activity of BRCA1 and the regulation of PP1β activity.By a two-hybrid approach, we identify a prefoldin-like protein, ubiquitously expressed transcript (UXT), that is expressed predominantly and interacts specifically with NF-κB inside the nucleus. RNA interference knockdown of UXT leads to impaired NF-κB activity and dramatically attenuates the expression of NF-κB–dependent genes. This interference also sensitizes cells to apoptosis by tumor necrosis factor-α.
To identify new components of the NF-κB enhanceosome, we performed a systematic yeast two-hybrid screening in which the cDNA fragment harboring the RHD of p65 (amino acids 1–312) was used as bait. Several positive clones were identified to encode full-length UXT (Fig. 1 A). In addition, previously confirmed p65-interacting proteins (e.g., IκBα and PIAS3) were screened out.
(A) Interaction between p65 and UXT in a yeast two-hybrid assay.In the yeast two-hybrid system, we detected no interaction between CO and COP1, although an interaction between COP1 and the CO-related protein CO-LIKE3 (COL3) was previously detected by this method (Datta et al, 2006), and we were able to confirm this interaction.DLK1 EGF repeats containing the DOS motif bind to specific Notch1 receptor EGF repeats in two-hybrid studies and in tissue culture [50], but the role of DLK1 in Notch signaling remains controversial because DLK1 lacks a DSL domain and does not activate mammalian Notch receptors [42,45–47].
Therefore, we turned to the yeast two-hybrid assay to test whether OSM-11 can interact with LIN-12 extracellular EGF repeats. Conventional wisdom suggests that the yeast two-hybrid system is not suitable for testing extracellular protein–protein interactions, especially for domains rich in disulfide bridges (e.g., EGF repeats). However, two-hybrid interactions have been demonstrated between Notch receptors and ligand pairs in other species for which biochemical interactions have been previously validated [38,39,50], as well as for numerous other extracellular proteins [81–86].
To validate our yeast two-hybrid approach, we first confirmed that the extracellular domain of LAG-2 [23] and the soluble DSL-domain LIN-12 ligand DSL-1 [35] interact with LIN-12 extracellular EGF repeats 1 through 6 in the two-hybrid assay (Figure 8). To the best of our knowledge, this is the first in vitro evidence that C. elegans DSL ligands may bind directly to LIN-12 Notch. As a negative control and to confirm specificity of the two-hybrid assay, we showed that the unrelated C. elegans ligands LIN-3 (an EGF homolog) and egg laying defective-17 (EGL-17) (an FGF homolog) do not interact with LIN-12 extracellular EGF repeats (Figure 8). The LAG-2 and DSL-1 interactions with LIN-12 in the two-hybrid assay are consistent with previous genetic studies in C. elegans and with biochemical analyses of Notch ligand/receptor interactions in other systems. Ligand-receptor interactions were only assayed using LIN-12 fused to the GAL4 activation domain (AD) as LIN-12 EGF fusion to the DNA-binding domain resulted in strong self-activation in the presence of AD empty vector (unpublished data).
We also confirmed previous studies [50] in which murine DLK1 EGF repeats 1 and 2 containing the DOS motif interacted specifically with murine Notch1 EGF repeats 12 and 13 in the same two-hybrid assay format (unpublished data). The two-hybrid interaction does not necessarily demonstrate that OSM-11 and LIN-12 interact in vivo; however, combined with the genetic interactions, the apical expression pattern of OSM-11 in VPCs, and previous studies of DLK1/Notch interactions, we favor a simple model in which OSM-11 binds directly to LIN-12 Notch EGF repeats.
Two-hybrid data and expression on the VPC apical surfaces suggest that OSM-11 may directly bind to the LIN-12 extracellular domain, although additional biochemical studies will be required to further confirm this.To help identify factors that might be shuttled from the cytosol to the ER by the GET system, we performed a yeast two-hybrid (Y2H) screen for polypeptides that can interact with Get3. Y2H analysis, which reports on weak interactions occurring within the nucleus of assayed strains, is well suited for identifying Get3 binding proteins, as it can detect transient interactions that are independent of the presence of Get1 and Get2. We used yeast expressing Get3 as bait to screen a genomic library encoding prey proteins (James et al., 1996). Physical interactions caused activation of the Gal4-driven HIS3 reporter gene, allowing growth on plates lacking histidine. The strongest hit from the screen was a fragment of Sed5 (amino acid 197 to the C terminus) (Figure 2A), a TA protein that acts as a SNARE in vesicular traffic within the Golgi and between the Golgi and the ER (Hardwick and Pelham, 1992). The Get3-Sed5 interaction was dependent on the presence of the C-terminal TMD (Figure 2A).
Consistent with this idea, by a directed Y2H approach, we detected physical interactions between Get3 and several additional secretory pathway TA proteins, including the SNAREs Tlg2 and Sec22 and the peroxisomal TA protein Pex15. These interactions, as observed for Sed5, were dependent on the presence of the C-terminal TMD (Figure 3A).
First, our Y2H analysis indicates that Get3 can bind multiple secretory pathway TA proteins in a TMD-dependent manner.
(A) Yeast two-hybrid assay with Get3 as bait and Sed5197–340 (the strongest hit from the Y2H screen) as prey (in the presence or absence of its TMD). The growth on medium lacking histidine (−HIS) is indicative of a physical interaction.
(A) Y2H assay showing Get3 as bait and various TA proteins (in the presence or absence of their TMDs) as prey. The growth on medium lacking histidine (−HIS) is indicative of a physical interaction.To explore the potential targets of p30 during infection, we have used the yeast two-hybrid system to screen a porcine macrophage (the natural viral host cell) cDNA library for cellular proteins that may interact with p30. We have identified heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein K (hnRNP-K) as the first cellular ligand of p30.
For the yeast two-hybrid assay, plasmids pGBT9 and pACT2 (BD Sciences) were used as sources of the GAL4 DNA-binding domain (BD) and transcriptional activation domain (AD), respectively.
pGBT9-p30 and unrelated control protein pGBT9-p54 were independently used as baits to screen a pACT2 cDNA library from pig macrophages in Saccharomyces cerevisiae reporter strain Y190 as previously published [18,20,21]. Yeast were sequentially transformed with bait plasmid and pACT2 library by the lithium acetate method. After auxotrophic and colony size selection, resulting clones were analyzed for expression of GAL4-dependent β-galactosidase. Plasmid DNA from those clones exhibiting β-galactosidase activity was isolated and retransformed into yeast strain Y190 with pGBT9-p30 to eliminate false positives. The sequence of inserts was determined by sequencing using specific primers and compared with the data base of the NCBI using the BLAST program. pGBT9-p30, pGBT9-p54 and pACT2-K were individually transformed in yeast and tested for β-galactosidase activity to exclude activation of gene reporter by itselves.
To identify cellular proteins interacting with ASFV early protein p30, yeast two-hybrid system was used to screen a porcine macrophage cDNA library. After selection from a total of 5 × 106 transformants screened, two potential positive clones were obtained in the reporter gene assay. DNA sequence analysis showed that cDNA contained in these clones, identical in size and composition, matched the cDNA sequence encoding hnRNP-K. cDNA sequences from positive clones represent nucleotides from 169 to 870 of the hnRNP-K cDNA sequence (GeneBank™ accession number 241477), with 98% nucleotide identity, corresponding to amino acid residues 13–246 of hnRNP-K protein.
In addition, diverse truncations of hnRNP-K were performed attending to previously well characterized functional domains [10] and tested for interaction using the yeast two-hybrid system. The results showed that none of the three different p30 truncations interacted with hnRNP-K (Fig. 2A). On the other hand, we could determine that the hnRNP-K fragment from amino acid residue 35–197 contained the interacting region with p30 (Fig. 2B).
By using the yeast two-hybrid system, we identified cellular hnRNP-K as an interacting protein with ASFV early protein p30.
(A) Schematic representation of the diverse p30 truncations tested for interaction with full length hnRNP-K in the yeast two-hybrid assay. (B) Schematic representation of the diverse hnRNP-K truncations tested for interaction with complete p30 in the yeast two-hybrid assay.A bait-containing sequence encoding ACBP4 was constructed for yeast two-hybrid screens using a cDNA library derived from A. thaliana to identify proteins that interact directly with ACBP4.
The two-hybrid library screens were performed in the Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain YPB2 [MATa ara3 his3 ade2 lys2 trp1 leu2, 112 canr gal4 gal80 LYS2::GAL1-HIS3, URA3::(GAL1UAS17mers)-lacZ] (Kohalmi et al., 1998). Cotransformants were plated on synthetic dextrose agar plates lacking leucine, tryptophan, and histidine [SD-leu-trp-his] supplemented with 10 mM 3-AT (Kohalmi et al., 1998).
S. cerevisiae strain YPB2 was transformed with bait plasmid pAT188 and transformants were plated on synthetic dextrose agar plates lacking leucine [SD-leu]. An aliquot of transformants was also tested on [SD-leu-his] medium supplemented with 10 mM 3-amino-1, 2, 4-triazole (3-AT) because an absence of growth on this medium would confirm that the DB-‘bait’ fusion protein is unable to initiate transcription of HIS3. Subsequently, the bait-carrying strain was tested negative for β-galactosidase activity using the X-Gal (5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-β-D-galactopyranoside) colony filter assay. This further showed that the bait was not able to activate transcription of the lacZ reporter gene. The prey vector pBI-771, a variant of pPC86 (Chevray and Nathans, 1992; Kohalmi et al., 1998), was introduced into this strain and its inability to grow on [SD-leu-trp-his] medium supplemented with 10 mM 3-AT and its lack of β-galactosidase activity were confirmed before the bait was further used in cDNA library screening.
To ensure sufficient coverage in the identification of potential proteins interacting with ACBP4, yeast two-hybrid screenings were also performed at the Molecular Interaction Facility, University of Wisconsin–Madison using yeast strains and vectors as previously described by James et al. (1996). For bait preparation, ACBP4 (amino acids 1–669) was cloned in-frame with the GAL4 DNA-binding domain of bait vector pBUTE (a kanamycin-resistant version of GAL4 bait vector pGBDUC1). The resulting vector was subject to DNA sequence analysis to confirm the presence of an in-frame fusion, before use in transformation of S. cerevisiae mating type strain PJ69-4A, followed by testing for autoactivation of the β-galactosidase reporter gene.
The yeast YPB2 transformed with the bait GAL4(DB)-ACBP4 could not grow on [SD-leu-his] and was tested negative on X-Gal colony filter assays (data not shown), suggesting that the pAT188 bait alone could not activate the transcription of reporter genes HIS3 and lacZ and was deemed appropriate for two-hybrid screens. A GAL4(TA) tagged A. thaliana cDNA library was introduced into the yeast YPB2 harbouring plasmid pAT188. The number of independent transformants was determined to be 2×106 following transformation and plating of an aliquot of the yeast transformation mixture on [SD-leu-trp]. A total of 100 putative positives were selected on [SD-leu-trp-his] supplemented with 10 mM 3-AT medium. When these putative positives were further screened for β-galactosidase activity using the X-Gal colony filter assay, nine yeast clones that appeared blue, at varying intensities, were identified as putative clones encoding interactors. Putative library plasmids were retrieved and their nucleotide sequences were searched against the BLAST server http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/cgi-bin/BLAST. Only one clone was in-frame to GAL4(TA), encoding a full-length ethylene-responsive element binding factor (ERF) protein AtEBP (Arabidopsis genome locus: AT3G16770). An AP2/EREBP (ethylene-responsive element binding protein) domain is present in AtEBP at amino acids 76–143 (Okamuro et al., 1997).
In another independent yeast two-hybrid screen using the Molecular Interaction Facility (University of Wisconsin–Madison), six putative positives were identified following selection on histidine drop-out and β-galactosidase assays. Subsequently, they were used to retransform yeast mating type strain PJ69-4A, and were validated in mating and selection assays using the ACBP4 bait, the empty bait vector, and unrelated baits. Five clones were tested positive and further identified by nucleotide sequence analysis. Results from analysis using the BLAST revealed that only one clone was in-frame and it encoded a full-length actin-depolymerizing factor 3 (ADF3, At5g59880) protein.
Results of X-Gal filter assays are shown in Fig. 1A. Positive protein–protein interaction results in activation of the reporter gene β-galactosidase in yeast cells, which turns yeast colonies blue in filter assays using X-Gal. Without interaction, the yeast colonies remain ‘colourless’. As shown in Fig. 1Aa, the GAL4(DB)-ACBP4 fusion interacted with GAL4(TA)-AtEBP, as indicated by the blue colour arising from the production of significant levels of β-galactosidase. No interactions were observed in control yeast cells harbouring GAL4(DB)-ACBP4+GAL4(TA) (Fig. 1Ab) and GAL4(DB)+GAL(TA)-AtEBP (Fig. 1Ac). Therefore, from yeast two-hybrid analysis, AtEBP was identified as a putative protein that interacts with ACBP4.
(A) Colony filter β-galactosidase assays of candidate proteins AtEBP from yeast two-hybrid screens. (a) YPB2/GAL4(DB)-ACBP4+GAL4(TA)-AtEBP; (b) YPB2/GAL4(DB)-ACBP4+GAL4(TA); (c) YPB2/GAL4(DB)+GAL(TA)-AtEBP.
Kelch-motif containing ACBP4 was used as bait in yeast two-hybrid screens from which an interactor (AtEBP) was retrieved.