To visualize protein–protein interactions in vivo, we used fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) as a probe.
In FRET, a fluorescent donor molecule transfers energy via a nonradiative dipole–dipole interaction to an acceptor molecule [46].
We used a well-known donor: acceptor fluorescent-protein pair, CFP:YFP, with a Förster distance (R 0) of 4.9 nm [47].
To determine whether Ago1 and Ago2 interacted in vivo with each other and with RCK/p54, we measured the FRET efficiency between the donor, CFP-Ago2, and acceptor, YFP-RCK/p54.
To do so, we used a method in which the donor signal lost during FRET is restored by deliberately photobleaching the acceptor fluorophore to abolish its capacity as an energy acceptor [48– 50].
In cells expressing YFP-RCK/p54 and CFP-Ago2, the FRET efficiency was 21.07% ± 2.52% (Figure 1C and (Figure1D).
In cells expressing CFP-Ago2 and YFP-Lsm1, FRET efficiency was not significant (1.62% ± 1.11%), corroborating our immunoprecipitation results (Figure 1A).
Furthermore, cells co-expressing YFP-RCK/p54 and CFP showed no significant FRET efficiency (1.64% ± 1.28%).
Similar to the YFP-RCK/p54 and CFP-Ago2 pair, YFP-Ago1 and CFP-Ago2 showed an efficient FRET (19.61% ± 4.51%), indicating a direct interaction between Ago1 and Ago2 in vivo [28].
Interestingly, the FRET efficiency between Ago1 and Ago2 decreased to 12.13% ± 1.6% when we used CFP-Ago1 and YFP-Ago2, indicating that the energy transfer efficiencies were sensitive to the orientation of donor: acceptor pair in the ribonucleoprotein (RNP) complex.
Moreover, only moderate energy transfer efficiency (6.41% ± 1.96%) was seen when YFP-RCK/p54 and CFP-Ago1 were used in FRET experiments, suggesting that this donor: acceptor pair was not as ideally oriented for an efficient energy transfer as the pair CFP-Ago1 and YFP-Ago2.
Alternatively, RCK/p54-Ago1-Ago2 is assembled in an RNP complex where the donor: acceptor pair is affected by the location of the probe.
Nonetheless, the efficiency of energy transfer was well above the background control (0.99%).
As a control experiment, cells co-expressing YFP-Ago1 and CFP showed no significant FRET efficiency (0.99% ± 0.67%).
Taken together, these results indicate that Ago1 and Ago2 directly interact in vivo with each other and with RCK/p54.
To visualize protein–protein interactions in vivo, we used FRET as a probe.
In cells expressing YFP-RCK/p54 and CFP-Ago2, the FRET efficiency was 21.07% ± 2.52% (Figure 1C and 1D).
We also observed an efficient FRET between YFP-Ago1 and CFP-Ago2; however, FRET between RCK/p54 and Ago1 was moderate (6.41% ± 1.96%).
Since FRET is quite sensitive to the orientation of the donor: acceptor pair, it is possible that CFP and YFP in Ago1 and RCK/p54 are not suitably positioned for efficient energy transfer.
Nonetheless, the FRET efficiency between Ago1 and RCK/p54 was significantly above the 0.9% background.
Taken together, these results demonstrate that Ago1, Ago2, and RCK/p54 directly interact in vivo.
(C) Visualization of interactions between RCK/p54 and Ago2 in P-bodies by FRET.
HeLa cells expressing YFP-RCK/p54 and CFP-Ago2 were fixed at 24 h post-transfection.
FRET was measured by an acceptor photobleaching method.
Fluorescence images of donor (CFP-Ago2) and acceptor (YFP-RCK/p54) molecules were taken before and after photobleaching YFP.
FRET efficiencies were calculated as described [48,49,68], and data were analyzed by Leica confocal software.
Arrows point to P-bodies, which are enlarged in insets.Whether the interaction between CO and COP1 also occurred in vivo in plant cells was tested using fluorescent resonance energy transfer (FRET).
Microprojectile bombardment was used to co-express cyan fluorescent protein (CFP):COP1 and yellow fluorescent protein (YFP):CO in leaf epidermal cells of Arabidopsis.
CFP:COP1 and YFP:CO colocalized to the nucleus and also colocalized in speckles within the nucleus (Figure 4A and B).
Physical interaction of CFP:COP1 and YFP:CO was tested by measuring FRET using photoacceptor bleaching, as previously described (Wenkel et al, 2006) (Figure 4C and D).
Quantification of FRET signals demonstrated that FRET occurred between YFP:CO and CFP:COP1 both in the nucleus and specifically in nuclear speckles (Figure 4C and D).
In control experiments using YFP and CFP, YFP:CO and CFP or YFP and CFP:COP1 FRET was detected at significantly lower levels (Figure 4C).
These experiments demonstrate that YFP:CO and CFP:COP1 colocalize and physically interact in the nuclei of plant cells.
The COP1 full-length cDNA was isolated by RT–PCR and produced as entry clone through BP reaction of Gateway system from Invitrogen.
Then, the entry clone was utilized for the construction of destination vectors for plant transformation, FRET experiments and in vitro-binding assay.
All plasmids for plant transformation were introduced into Agrobacterium strain GV3101 (pMP90RK) and transformed into WT Columbia, cop1–4 or SUC2:CO (An et al, 2004) plants by the floral dip method (Clough and Bent, 1998).
(C) Quantification of FRET in vivo between CFP:CO and YFP:COP1.
YFP:CO detected as an increase in CFP fluorescence after photobleaching of YFP.
Quantification of FRET efficiencies after acceptor photobleaching measured in nuclei and nuclear speckles.
Data are mean±s.d.
of 10–20 cells from three separate experiments.
(D) Visualization of increase in CFP fluorescence after YFP photobleaching.
Left-hand panel, cells expressing CFP:COP1 and YFP, which exerts an effect as a negative control.
Right-hand panel, cells expressing CFP:COP1 and YFP:CO.
Scale bar: 6 μm in (A) and 8 μm in (D).Fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) pairs GFP/DsRed were analysed using a confocal laser-scanning microscope (Zeiss LSM510 META).
FRET measurements of DsRed emission with zero contribution from GFP, was accomplished as described by Erickson et al.
(2003) using the following settings: excitation at 488 nm and emission filters, BP 505–530 nm for GFP and BP 600–637 nm for DsRed.
(C–F) FRET detection in tobacco leaf epidermal cells co-expressing GFP:AtEBP and ACBP4:DsRed; (C) differential interference contrast image of D-F; (D) green channel shows GFP:AtEBP; (E) red channel shows FRET signal of ACBP4:DsRed; (F) co-localization of two signals is indicated by a yellow colour in merged images of (D) and (E).
In FRET analysis, in cells co-expressing GFP:AtEBP and ACBP4:DsRed, not only GFP:AtEBP green fluorescence (Fig.
2D) but also ACBP4:DsRed red fluorescence (Fig.
2E), which overlapped with the GFP signals (Fig.
2F), were detected, indicating that FRET occurred between GFP:AtEBP and ACBP4:DsRed.