This assumption is supported by the fact that the MEINOXSTM domain is precipitated via the BELLBLH3 domain in co-immunoprecipitation experiments (data not shown).
Co-immunoprecipitation and BiFC experiments performed in the course of this study show that the MEINOXSTM and the BELLBLH3 domains are sufficient for interaction in vitro and in planta.Mutagenesis of residue R1161 (in α2AA and α2AAKYA, removing another conserved charged residue) to alanine significantly reduced α2 tail association with Rab21 judged by yeast mating tests and immunoprecipitations (Fig. 1, D and E). In addition, F1159A mutation (α2AARA, possibly creating a conformational change) showed reduced association in the yeast assays, whereas in immunoprecipitations the reduction was not significant. These data on the mutant integrins suggest that the conformation of the cytoplasmic domain and residue R1161 of α2-integrin are important for the Rab21 association.
(A) GFP-Rab21–transfected HeLa cells on plastic (P) or on collagen (CI; 1 h) were subjected to immunoprecipitations (IPs) with the indicated antibodies followed by blotting with anti-α2 or anti-GFP. (B and C) Full-length Rab21WT tagged with Rluc (Rluc-Rab21), mutants (Rluc-Rab21GTP, -Rab21GDP, or -Rab21C-del), or Rluc alone were expressed in Saos-2 cells stably expressing chimeric α-integrin subunits (α2/α1) or (α2/α5) (B) or HT1080 cells (C), and immunoprecipitation was performed with the indicated antibodies. The coprecipitated luciferase activity is presented relative to the basal nonspecific activity detected in the relevant control immunoprecipitations (anti-EGFR). Efficiency of the integrin immunoprecipitation was analyzed by Western blotting with anti-β1 from the same beads (means ± SD; n = 5; ***, P < 7 × 10−5; **, P < 0.001).
(E) CHO cells were cotransfected with Rluc-Rab21 and GFP-α2 variants. Immunoprecipitation was performed with anti-GFP antibody, and the coprecipitated luciferase activity is presented relative to the activity detected in immunoprecipitations from α2WT-expressing cells. Efficiency of the integrin immunoprecipitation was analyzed by Western blotting with anti-α2 from the same beads (means ± SD; n = 5; *, P < 0.05; †, not significant). (F) Endogenous proteins were immunoprecipitated from MDA-MB-231 cells using the indicated antibodies and blotted with anti-β1 or anti-Rab antibodies.
(M) Immunoprecipitation (IP) was performed with anti–β1-integrin mAb or control mouse IgG from GFP-Rab21WT– or -Rab21CCSS–transfected MDA-MB-231 cells followed by Western blotting with anti-β1 or anti-GFP. Equal amounts of lysates were loaded on the gel to control for transfection efficiency.
(A) Cells transiently cotransfected with GFP-α2 and Rluc-Rab21 were subjected to the following immunoprecipitations (IPs): anti-GFP, anti-β1, and mouse IgG for control. The coprecipitated luciferase activity (cps) is shown, and the values above the bars indicate luminescence detected relative to the control immunoprecipitation.
Rluc-tagged Rab21 constructs alone or with GFP-α2 variants (CHO cells that lack endogenous collagen binding integrins) were transfected into 95% confluent cells using Lipofectamine 2000 and incubated for 18 h. For immunoprecipitations with endogenous proteins, confluent MDA-MB-231 cells (20 × 106) were collected from plastic plates with cold PBS. For analysis of association with cell surface–labeled integrin, MDA-MB-231 cells were plated on collagen-coated dishes for 1 h and surface biotinylated with cleavable biotin (0.5 mg/ml EZ-sulfo-NHS-SS-biotin in HANKS buffer) for 30 min on ice. After washings, cells were either lysed immediately or warmed for 15 min in HANKS +37°C to allow internalization. Cells were lysed in IP buffer (PBS with 1% octylglycoside, 0.5% BSA, 1mM CaCl2, 1mM MgCl2, and protease inhibitor cocktail [Roche]) on ice for 15 min. Postcentrifugation supernatant was precleared with BSA-blocked (IP buffer) protein G–agarose beads and divided into five aliquots for immunoprecipitations with different anti-Rab antibodies or a control antibody and protein G beads (90-min rotation at 4°C). After three washings (IP buffer containing 0.3% octylglycoside), SDS sample buffer was added and the proteins were separated by SDS-PAGE (4%/10%) and immunoblotted for β1-integrin (MAB2252). Reimmunoprecipitations were performed as described earlier (Mattila et al., 2005). For the luminescent immunoprecipitations, the beads were transferred into white microtiter plate wells (96-well) and treated with Rluc substrate (5 μg/ml coelenterazine [Nanolight Technologies]), and the luminescence was measured with a multilabel HTS counter (Victor2V; PerkinElmer).To determine the effect of P-body disruption on Ago2 and RCK/p54 interactions, we immunopurified Myc-Ago2 and RCK/p54 after Lsm1 knockdown. HeLa cells were transfected for 48 h with Myc-Ago2 and control siRNA or siRNA against Lsm1, TCEs were prepared, and Myc-Ago2 was immunoprecipitated from an aliquot of TCE. TCEs and anti-Myc immunoprecipitation products were analyzed by immunoblot using anti-Myc, anti-RCK/p54, and anti-Lsm1 antibodies. Lsm1 siRNA treatment efficiently depleted Lsm1 protein levels without affecting Myc-Ago2 and RCK/p54 levels (Figure 5C). Immunoprecipitation using Myc antibodies showed that RCK/p54 interacted with Ago2 and this interaction was not significantly changed by depleting Lsm1 (Figure 5C). Since P-bodies were disrupted by Lsm1 depletion, these results demonstrate that Ago2 and RCK/p54 interaction does not require P-bodies.
Ago1 and RCK/p54 immunoprecipitated with Ago2 after RNase A treatment of HeLa cell extracts, suggesting that these proteins directly interact with Ago2. Interestingly, RCK/p54, Ago1, and Ago2 were also identified as a component of active RISC programmed with siRNA or miRNA and purified by biotin affinity to streptavidin-conjugated magnetic beads (Figures 2 and 3). We examined the P-body localization of Ago2 with Lsm1 and RCK/p54 by co-expressing YFP-tagged Lsm1 and RCK/p54 with CFP-Ago2. Interestingly, overexpressing YFP-RCK/p54 in HeLa cells increased the number of P-bodies (from ∼ 8 to ∼ 20 foci/cell). The number of P-bodies containing CFP-Ago2 also increased (Figure 1B). These results suggested a functional relationship between RCK/p54-Ago interactions and their localization to P-bodies.
TCEs from HeLa cells co-expressing Myc-Ago2 and YFP-Ago1, YFP-Dcp2, YFP-RCK/p54, YFP-eIF4E, YFP-Lsm1, or YFP were treated with +/− RNase A followed by Myc-Ago2 immunoprecipitation.
(C) RCK/p54 interacts with Myc-Ago2 in Lsm1-depleted cells. HeLa cells were transfected for 48 h with Myc-Ago2 and control siRNA or siRNA against Lsm1, TCEs were prepared, and Myc-Ago2 was immunoprecipitated from an aliquot of TCE.Figure 2A shows that Bcl-xL measured in whole cell lysates from pretumourigenic CD45−/−lckF505 murine thymocytes is resistant to deamidation following γ irradiation, consistent with our previous findings [15]. Immunoprecipitation of the pro-apoptotic protein Bim, followed by immunoblotting for Bcl-xL, revealed that Bim sequestered only the N52/N66 Bcl-xL and failed to bind the slower migrating deamidated protein (Figure 2A, upper panel), although the amount of Bim in each immunoprecipitate was comparable (Figure 2A, lower panel). Because the BH3-only protein Puma, not Bim, plays a major role in DNA-damage triggered apoptosis [19,20], we also showed that both Puma and Bim are found in Bcl-xL immunoprecipitates from etoposide treated CD45−/−LckF505 thymocytes, whereas sequestration is ablated in wild-type cells, correlating with Bcl-xL deamidation (Figure 2B). A comparable result was obtained when Puma immunoprecipitates were blotted for Bcl-xL (Figure S2A).
(A) Bim binds to the native (Asn-Asn) but not deamidated forms of Bcl-xL. Wild-type (C57BL/6) thymocytes (1.5 × 107) were exposed to 5 Gy irradiation (IR) and then maintained in culture for the times shown, after which cells were lysed and either separated as whole cell lysates (WCL) or as Bim immunoprecipitates, followed by immunoblotting for either Bcl-xL or for Bim. Bim migrates as “extra-long” (EL) or “long” (L) forms.
(B) Bcl-xL was immunoprecipitated from lysates derived from purified DN thymocytes treated with/without etoposide (ut/E), followed by immunoblotting for Bim or Puma. The asterisk indicates the light chain of the Bcl-xL antibody used for immunoprecipitation.
(E) Primary thymocytes were retrovirally transduced with empty vector or Bcl-xL constructs (wild-type, N52A-N66A, or N52D-N66D). Bcl-xL was immunoprecipitated from lysates derived from 1.5 × 106 sorted GFP-positive cells per lane, followed by immunoblotting for Bim or Puma. Note that in the vector lane, at this exposure endogenous Bcl-xL is not visible because of the small number of cells used. The asterisk indicates the light chain of the Bcl-xL antibody used for immunoprecipitation.Protein was immunoprecipitated using antibodies against BRCA1, or an antibody against the Flag epitope to immunoprecipitate Flag epitope tagged PP1α, β, or γ. BRCA1 coimmunoprecipitated all three PP1 isoforms, and conversely, PP1 α, β and γ coimmunoprecipitated BRCA1 (Figure 2), indicating that the interaction between BRCA1 and PP1 is specific.(D) 293T cells were transfected with HA-UXT. 24 h after transfection, cells were treated with 10 ng/ml TNF-α for the indicated times and fractionated to cytoplasmic and nuclear fractions, which were immunoprecipitated and immunoblotted with the indicated antibodies, respectively. (E) 293T cells were treated with 10 ng/ml TNF-α for the indicated times. Whole cell lysates were immunoprecipitated and immunoblotted with the indicated antibodies. Bar, 10 μm.
To explore the UXT-binding region within p65, we constructed a series of p65 deletion mutants (Fig. 2 A). It was found that the loss of amino acids 1–285 at the N terminus of p65 resulted in its complete inability to interact with UXT (Fig. 2 B, top). In contrast, p65 fragments spanning amino acids 1–286, 1–312, or 1–372 fully retained their binding capability and interacted with UXT as well as the wild type (Fig. 2 B, middle). Because the RHD of p65 consisted of two Ig-like domains (Chen et al., 1998), we made two additional deletion mutants of p65 (amino acids 1–190 and 191–551), each of which contained only one Ig-like domain. Immunoprecipitation assays revealed that neither of them was able to interact with UXT (Fig. 2 B, bottom).
(B) Tagged full-length UXT was transfected into 293T cells along with p65 and its deletion mutants as indicated. Whole cell lysates were immunoprecipitated and immunoblotted with the indicated antibodies. (C) 293T cells were transfected with FLAG-UXT together with HA-p50, myc-cRel, and HA–lymphoid enhancer binding factor 1. Cell lysates were immunoprecipitated and immunoblotted with the indicated antibodies.The co-IP of these PDE4D splice variants expressed exogenously in HEK293 cells identified PDE4D8 as the variant that most efficiently interacts with β1AR. Other long PDE4D splice variants were also recovered in β1AR IP pellets with the following rank order: PDE4D8>PDE4D9>PDE4D3>PDE4D5 (Figure 3A and B). Conversely, the short PDE4D form, PDE4D2, did not co-IP with the β1AR, indicating that the UCR domains unique to long PDE4 splice variants may contribute to the formation of the β1AR/PDE4D complex.
However, the co-IP of exogenous PDE4D and β1AR from extracts of mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) deficient in β-arrestin 1 and 2 (Kohout et al, 2001) was not decreased compared with wild-type controls, suggesting that formation of the β1AR/PDE4D complex is independent of β-arrestins (Figure 3C). To further characterize the interaction, we performed IPs using PDE4D and βARs that were purified from a baculovirus expression system to >90% purity (see Supplementary Figure 1 for the characterization of the purified proteins).
β1AR preferentially associates with PDE4D8 in cardiomyocytes as shown by co-IP of endogenous PDE with the β1AR (Figure 1C), as well as the selective activation of PDE4D8 in intact cells (Figure 5A). This preference of β1AR for PDE4D8 was confirmed by co-IP experiments with exogenous proteins (Figure 3A and B).
(B, C) Detergent extracts from neonatal cardiac myocytes were immunoprecipitated with PAN-selective antibodies for the PDE4 subtypes, PDE4A, PDE4B, and PDE4D (B), or with splice variant-selective anti-PDE4D antibodies (C).
It remains to be determined to what extent PDE4D9, which is activated after both β1AR and β2AR stimulation (Figure 5) and which also showed interaction with β1AR in co-IPs of exogenous proteins (Figure 3A and B), can substitute for interaction with the βARs in vivo.To identify the mechanism of Plx1 recruitment to chromatin, we tested the interaction of Plx1 with the Mcm complex. We found that Plx1 co-precipitated with Mcm7 and that its binding was enhanced by activation of the checkpoint induced by pApT (Figure 5C).
(C) Co-immunoprecipitation of Plx1 and Mcm7. Extracts that were untreated (−) or treated with 50 ng/μl pA/pT (+) were immunoprecipitated with pre-immune (Pre-Imm) or anti-Plx1 (Anti-Plx1) antibodies.Therefore, whether COP1 and CO interact in vitro was tested using a co-immunoprecipitation assay (Figure 3). COP1 attached to the GAL4 activation domain (GAD:COP1) and CO were made in an in vitro transcription/translation system and combined. GAD:COP1 was precipitated with anti-GAD antibody and CO was co-precipitated with GAD:COP1 (Figure 3).
In vitro precipitation experiments demonstrated that COΔB-box was co-immunoprecipitated with GAD:COP1, whereas COΔCCT was not. Therefore, the N-terminal region containing the B-boxes is not required for interaction with COP1, suggesting that the interaction with COP1 is mediated by the C-terminal region of CO that contains the CCT domain.
COP1 directly interacts with target proteins and directs them for degradation (Hoecker, 2005; Jiao et al, 2007). CO is composed of three domains, zinc-finger B-boxes, a central domain and the C-terminal CCT domain (Wenkel et al, 2006). CO and COP1 interact directly in vitro as demonstrated by immunoprecipitation experiments. This interaction was almost abolished when the C-terminal part of CO was removed, suggesting that COP1 interacts with the C-terminal region of CO, as was previously observed for interactions between COP1 and COL3 or between CO and SPA1 (Datta et al, 2006; Laubinger et al, 2006).
In vitro interaction between CO and COP1 detected by co-immunoprecipitation. 35S-methionine-labeled CO, COΔB-box or COΔCCT was incubated with 35S-methionine-labeled GAD:COP1 or GAD and co-immunoprecipitated with anti-GAD antibodies. Supernatant fractions and pellet fractions were resolved by SDS–PAGE and visualized by autoradiography using a phosphorimager. Quantification of the fractions of prey proteins that were co-immunoprecipitated by the indicated bait proteins GAD:COP1 or GAD. Error bars denote the standard error of the mean of two replicate experiments.When both proteins were in the membranes, Bcl-XL bound to tBid, as assessed by co-immunoprecipitation. This interaction was not dependent on the detergent used to solubilize the liposomes (unpublished data), and at concentrations of 100 nM Bcl-XL and 20 nM tBid the interaction was not affected by the addition of Bax (Figure 2A, left panel, lanes 1 and 2). In the absence of membranes, interaction between Bcl-XL and tBid could not be detected by co-immunoprecipitation (unpublished data).
(A) Bax (100 nM) and/or tBid (20 nm) were incubated with 100 nM Bcl-XL (left panel) or 20 nM Bcl-XL (right panels) and liposomes. Samples were immunoprecipitated (IP) in either 2% CHAPS or 0.2% NP-40, as indicated, using an antibody with the indicated specificity and immunoblotted (IB) for the indicated protein.
(B–D) Mutations prevent the binding of Bcl-XL to tBid, Bax, or both. (B and D) Bcl-XL (20 nM), or the indicated Bcl-XL mutants, (C) Bcl-XL Y101K or (D) Bcl-XL ΔBH4, were incubated with (C and D) 20 nM tBid or (B) tBid-mt1 with or without Bax (100 nM) and with liposomes. Immunoprecipitations and immunoblotting were performed as in (A).
Although sequestration of membrane-bound tBid by Bcl-XL appears to account for its antiapoptotic function in both liposomes and MLM, we sought to determine whether Bcl-XL also could interact stably with Bax. When tested in the absence of tBid, a stable interaction between Bax and Bcl-XL was not detected (Figure 2A, left panel, lane 3), suggesting that Bcl-XL does not sequester Bax in solution. However as expected, co-immunoprecipitation of Bcl-XL and Bax was observed in control experiments where membranes were solubilized with the nonionic detergent NP-40, known to induce a conformational change in Bax required for heterodimerization with Bcl-XL that is also seen in cells when apoptosis is induced [20,26].
(A) Bax (100 nM) was incubated in the presence of liposomes and in the absence or presence of tBid (20 nM). Conformation-altered Bax was immunoprecipitated using the 6A7 antibody with or without the addition of 2% CHAPS to solubilize the liposomes prior to immunoprecipitation and analyzed by immunoblotting using an α-Bax antibody. The asterisk denotes the light chain of the 6A7 antibody.
(B) Bax was incubated in the presence of liposomes, tBid, and increasing concentrations of Bcl-XL. Immunoprecipitations and immunoblotting were performed as in (A) without the addition of 2% CHAPS.
(C) Bax was incubated for 2 h with liposomes (without tBid) at increasing concentrations of Bcl-XL or Bcl-XL Y101K. Immunoprecipitations and immunoblotting were performed as in (B).
(F) Membrane-bound Bcl-XL inhibits the liposome-induced Bax conformational change with 50 μM m1Bid but not with 50 μM Bak BH3 peptide. Immunoprecipitations and immunoblotting were performed as in (B).
Pioneering experiments to identify relevant binding partners for Bcl-2 and Bcl-XL using immunoprecipitation in transfected cells suggested a lack of correlation between Bax binding and inhibition of apoptosis, as only certain Bcl-XL point mutants that could no longer bind to Bax lost function [40].
Immunoprecipitation of Bcl-XL was performed using the polyclonal Bcl-XL antibody in assay buffer containing either 2% CHAPS or 0.2% NP-40. Immunoprecipitates were collected as previously described [7] and washed three times in assay buffer containing the appropriate detergent. Immunoprecipitation using the conformation-specific 6A7 Bax antibody was performed on whole membranes and washed three times with assay buffer containing 2% CHAPS.Immunoprecipitation experiments using tagged TBK1 suggested that its interaction with DDX3X and the transcription factor IRF3 are significantly weaker than the interaction between TBK1 and TANK and therefore not detected by coimmunoprecipitation under stringent conditions (Supplementary Figure 1A).The wild-type MDC1 derivative efficiently co-immunoprecipitated MRN at physiological salt concentrations, whereas only low levels of MRN were recovered in immunoprecipitates of the MDC1SDTDΔ mutant (Fig 4B), consistent with the SDTD region being the principal MRN interaction interface.
(B) Indicated expression constructs were transfected into human embryonic kidney 293 cells. After 48 h, extracts were prepared, immunoprecipitated (IP) with GFP antibodies and immunoblotted. Immunoprecipitations and washes were performed at 150 mM salt; INP, input (5%). (C,D) Indicated osteosarcoma (U2OS) cell lines were treated with two rounds of control (CNTL) or MDC1-targeting siRNA for 72 h. Cells were then treated with 5 Gy of X-rays and processed for immunofluorescence 4 h later with MDC1, (C) NBS1 or (D) 53BP1 antibodies (non-irradiated cells are shown in supplementary Fig S4B,C online).Co-IP experiments were repeated using the HCT116 SIRT3 expressing stable cell lines. FOXO3a was found to interact with SIRT3 in both whole cell (Fig. 1B) and mitochondrial extracts (Fig. 1C). All fractions and samples in the Co-IP experiments were checked for the presence of SIRT3, using a SIRT3 specific antibody (Biomol, Plymouth Meeting , PA), as well as tubulin (Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Santa Cruz, CA), and Cytochrome C (Mitosciences, Eugene, OR) to ensure fraction purity (data not shown). These experiments demonstrate that both wild type and mutant SIRT3 form a physical interaction with FOXO3a in mitochondrial extracts.To corroborate the interaction from yeast two-hybrid analysis, co-immunoprecipitation studies were performed according to Mongiat et al. (2003). All constructs used in these interaction assays were derivatives of vector pBluescriptII KS(–) (pKS). The HindIII-SacI fragment from pBI-771 carrying GAL4(TA) (amino acids 768–881) was cloned into corresponding restriction sites on pKS. The GAL4(TA)-ACBP4 fusion construct was prepared by inserting ACBP4 cDNA from pAT181, on a 2 kb EcoRI-BamHI fragment, into the EcoRI-BglII sites of pKS-TA with the 5′ of TA-ACBP4 adjacent to the T3 promoter.
Co-immunoprecipitation with monoclonal anti-GAL4(TA) antibody (Clontech, USA) was performed following Mongiat et al. (2003).
(B) Co-immunoprecipitation of ACBP4 and AtEBP using the anti-GAL4(TA) monoclonal antibody. Autoradiograph of a 12% SDS-PAGE (left panel) showing the in vitro transcribed and translated ADF3, AtEBP, and GAL4(TA)-ACBP4, respectively, as indicated. The right panel shows the co-immunoprecipitation of equimolar amounts of GAL4(TA)-ACBP4 and ADF3 or AtEBP using the anti-GAL4(TA) antibody. Arrows indicate the positions of these proteins.
Co-immunoprecipitation of in vitro transcription/translation products to the GAL4(TA)-ACBP4 fusion protein, immobilized to protein A/agarose beads, using monoclonal antibody against GAL4(TA), showed that the GAL4(TA)-ACBP4 fusion protein significantly binds AtEBP (Fig. 1B). However, no binding of GAL4(TA)-ACBP4 to ADF3 was observed (Fig. 1B), perhaps due to the lack of cofactors which must be present for their in vitro interaction.
The interaction of AtEBP and ACBP4 was further substantiated by co-immunoprecipitation and by using autofluorescent protein fusions in the transient expression of tobacco leaf epidermal cells. ACBP4 and AtEBP showed overlapping expression patterns in leaves and stems and both were inducible by ACC, MeJA treatment, and infection with the fungal pathogen, Botrytis cinerea.