To determine whether the Bcl-XL/Bax heterodimer also prevented the subsequent oligomerization of Bax, we examined oligomerization by cross-linking. In these experiments, the cross-linker was added to reactions containing an equal amount of membrane-bound Bax in the absence or presence of Bcl-XL (Figure S3). In these reactions, membrane-bound Bcl-XL inhibited Bax oligomerization, as detected by cross-linking concomitant with inhibition of dye release from liposomes. Taken together, these results suggest that, when bound to Bcl-XL, Bax function is neutralized, both in recruitment of other Bax molecules through autoactivation and in oligomerization to permeabilize membranes (Figure 6C, step 6).
(D and E) Bcl-XL inhibits liposome-induced cross-linking of Bax. (D) Bax (100 nM) was incubated with liposomes for 2 h either alone (left panel), with 20 nM tBid (middle panel), or with 20 nM tBid and 100 nM Bcl-XL (right panel). Cross-linking with DSS was performed for 30 min at room temperature with or without 2% CHAPS to solubilize the liposomes prior to cross-linking, as indicated. Results were analyzed by immunoblotting. (E) Bax (100 nM) was incubated with or without liposomes for 2 h. Cross-linking and immunoblotting were performed as in (D).
To investigate further the effects of the membrane surface on Bax and the inhibition of these effects by Bcl-XL, cross-linking experiments using disuccinimidyl suberate (DSS) were performed. Cross-linking of Bax into higher-order structures after Bax binds to membranes has been observed previously [18].
Nevertheless, incubation with liposomes did result in the cross-linking of Bax into higher-order complexes (Figure 5D, left panel). As expected from previous results [7,9], the interactions between Bax monomers induced by incubation with membranes were not resistant to detergent solubilization prior to cross-linking. The Bax–Bax cross-links were reduced in the absence of liposomes (Figure 5E), suggesting that, similar to binding by the 6A7 antibody, they result from a liposome-induced conformational change in Bax. Addition of tBid to Bax and liposomes resulted in a similar cross-linking pattern, but these Bax oligomers were resistant to solubilization of the membrane with detergent (Figure 5D, middle panel). Membrane-bound Bcl-XL not only prevented the formation of detergent-resistant Bax cross-links but also prevented the cross-linking of Bax that resulted when Bax contacted the membrane surface (Figure 5D, right panel).
DSS cross-linking was performed at a concentration of 2 mM (or DMSO control) for 30 min at room temperature. The cross-linker was quenched by the addition of Tris-Cl (pH 8) to a final concentration of 20 mM. To examine the effects of CHAPS solubilization prior to cross-linking, samples were mixed with an equal volume of assay buffer or assay buffer containing 4% CHAPS, and the extent of cross-linking was analyzed.Kelch motifs, structural repeats first observed in the Drosophila actin cross-linking protein kelch, allow protein folding into a cylindrical ‘β-propeller structure’ (Adams et al., 2000) forming a potential protein–protein interaction domain (Andrade et al., 2001).Remarkably, in cells lacking Ctk1 (ctk1Δ), TBP cross-linked throughout these genes, from the promoter to the 3′-end (Figure 1B).
This observation was not restricted to TBP, with similar cross-linking patterns observed for TFIIE and TFIIH. Quantitation confirmed that TBP and Kin28 occupancy in the body of actively transcribing genes was significantly higher in ctk1Δ compared with WT cells. Spreading of Sua7 (TFIIB), Tfb1 (TFIIH) and Tfa2 (TFIIF) was also observed, although the association of these proteins with promoter regions was decreased in ctk1Δ cells (Figure 1C). TFIIB has recently been shown to cross-link with both the terminator and promoter regions of many active genes (Singh and Hampsey, 2007). This association is important for gene looping and dependent on Ssu72, a component of the CPF 3′-end processing complex (Singh and Hampsey, 2007). In accordance with this report, Sua7 cross-linked with region 7, downstream of the PMA1 poly(A) sites in a WT strain (Figure 1C). This pattern is generally maintained in the absence of Ctk1, suggesting that recruitment of TFIIB to 3′-ends is distinct from that of basal transcription factors to promoters.
To exclude the possibility that the abnormal cross-linking of basal transcription factors in ctk1Δ cells was due to issues with the specific antibodies, the experiment was repeated with strains carrying TAP-tagged Tfg1, Tfg2, or Tfg3 (all subunits of TFIIF).
The UAS from all three genes show strong Rap1 cross-linking, and this signal remains appropriately localized in ctk1Δ cells (Figure 3C). In addition, neither Rpb1 nor TBP are found at the UAS region, indicating that the aberrant cross-linking that we observe in ctk1Δ cells is unidirectional along with transcription.
As it is primarily the basal factors of the scaffold that exhibit aberrant in vivo cross-linking in cells lacking Ctk1 (Figure 1), we tested whether in vitro scaffold formation was affected in extracts from a ctk1Δ strain.