The binding mode observed for Fc and the CgE portion of gE-gI in the gE-gI/Fc crystal structure was verified by an independent theoretical prediction of the CgE interaction with Fc. The gE-gI/Fc model resulting from prediction and crystallographic methods is consistent with biochemical data characterizing the interaction, provides insight into the molecular basis for the observed pH dependence of the gE-gI/Fc interaction, and allows mapping of CgE residues important for IgG binding and cell-to-cell spread. In addition, the orientation of the gE-gI/IgG complex on a membrane, as predicted from the complex crystal structure, demonstrates that antibody bipolar bridging can occur on the surface of an infected cell or virus.X-ray diffraction studies guided by nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) experiments reveal the crystal structures of the Munc13–1 C2A-domain homodimer and the Munc13–1 C2A-domain/RIM ZF heterodimer at 1.44 Å and 1.78 Å resolution, respectively. The C2A domain adopts a β-sandwich structure with a four-stranded concave side that mediates homodimerization, leading to the formation of an eight-stranded β-barrel. In contrast, heterodimerization involves the bottom tip of the C2A-domain β-sandwich and a C-terminal α-helical extension, which wrap around the RIM ZF domain. Our results describe the structural basis for a Munc13–1 homodimer–Munc13–1/RIM heterodimer switch that may be crucial for vesicle priming and presynaptic plasticity, uncovering at the same time an unexpected versatility of C2 domains as protein–protein interaction modules, and illustrating the power of combining NMR spectroscopy and X-ray crystallography to study protein complexes.
Guided by solution nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) experiments, we have solved the X-ray crystal structure of the Munc13–1 C2A-domain homodimer at 1.44 Å resolution, designed a mutation that disrupts homodimerization, and solved the X-ray crystal structure at 1.78 Å resolution of a Munc13–1 fragment bearing this mutation bound to the RIM2α ZF domain.
Moreover, our data uncover an unexpected versatility of C2 domains as protein–protein interaction modules that underlies this switch, and emphasize that combining NMR spectroscopy with X-ray crystallography provides a powerful approach to investigate protein complexes at atomic resolution.
NMR spectroscopy and X-ray crystallography provide complementary tools to study protein structure. X-ray crystallography is better suited to elucidate the structures of large proteins and accurately define interfaces of protein complexes, but requires crystallization, which can yield artifacts due to crystal packing. Furthermore, unfolded regions and non-specific aggregation can hinder crystallization, and these properties need to be monitored by alternative techniques.
In this study, we took advantage of the strengths of both techniques, using NMR spectroscopy to optimize protein complexes for crystallization and to obtain structural information in solution that was later employed to interpret the high-resolution structures of these complexes elucidated by X-ray crystallography.
Our results illustrate the power of combining X-ray crystallography with NMR spectroscopy to study structural aspects of protein complexes, and suggest that a complex cascade of protein–protein interactions, including a Munc13–1 homodimer–Munc13–1/α-RIM heterodimer switch, may regulate synaptic vesicle priming and some forms of presynaptic plasticity.
The structural information available on protein–protein interactions involving ZF domains is also limited [25]. The X-ray structure of the Munc13–1/RIM2α heterodimer described here provides the first high-resolution view of a complex directly involving a member from the family of ZF domains that includes α-RIMs and other Rab effectors. The structure shows that two surfaces at opposite sides of the RIM2α ZF domain interact with two different structural motifs of Munc13–13–150. Thus, the N-terminal loop region of the RIM2α ZF domain binds to the tip of the C2A-domain β-sandwich, whereas the crevice formed by the C-terminal β-hairpin and helix a2 binds the C-terminal helix of Munc13–13–150. Interestingly, in the complex between the α subunit of Hif-1 (Hif-1α) and the TAZ1 domain of CREB-binding protein (a ZF domain unrelated to the RIM2α ZF domain), Hif-1α also wraps around the TAZ1 domain, interacting with surfaces at opposite sides of the domain [31]. An emerging theme from these observations is that, because of their small size, ZF domains may often use multiple surfaces to increase the affinity and specificity of interactions with target proteins, although further research will be necessary to assess the generality of this notion.
The purified Munc13–13–128 fragment and the Munc13–13–150(K32E)/Rim2α82–142 complex were concentrated to 12 and 10 mg/ml, respectively, in buffer containing 30 mM Tris (pH 7.4), 150 mM NaCl, and 1 mM TCEP. Munc13–13–128 was crystallized in 0.4 M magnesium formate, 0.1 M sodium acetate (pH 4.5) at 20 °C using the hanging-drop vapor-diffusion method. Crystals appeared overnight and grew to a final size of approximately 0.05 mm × 0.05 mm × 0.35 mm within 3 d. Prior to data collection, crystals were first transferred into 0.02 M sodium acetate buffer (pH 5.5), then transferred step by step to a series of solutions containing 0.02 M sodium acetate (pH 5.5) with increasing concentration of ethylene glycol (5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, 25%, and 30% [v/v] respectively), and finally flash-cooled in liquid propane. Diffraction data were collected at the Structural Biology Center beamline 19ID of the Advanced Photon Source at 100 K to a Bragg spacing (dmin) of 1.44 Å. The crystals exhibited the symmetry of space groupP21, contained four molecules per asymmetric unit, and had unit cell parameters ofa = 43.56 Å,b = 127.14 Å,c = 50.74 Å, and β = 90.27°. The Munc13–13–150(K32E)/Rim2α82–142 complex was crystallized in 1.3 M ammonium tartrate (pH 7.0) at 20 °C using the hanging-drop vapor-diffusion method. Crystals appeared overnight and grew to a final size of approximately 0.06 mm × 0.06 mm × 0.25 mm within 4 d. Prior to data collection, crystals were transferred into a solution of 1.4 M ammonium tartrate (pH 7.0) and 20% (v/v) ethylene glycol, and then flash-cooled in liquid propane. Diffraction data were collected at the Structural Biology Center beamline 19ID of the Advanced Photon Source at 100 K to a Bragg spacing (dmin) of 1.78 Å. The crystals exhibited the symmetry of space groupP212121, and had unit cell parameters ofa = 50.25 Å,b = 93.53 Å,c = 113.13 Å. Data were processed and scaled in the HKL2000 program suite [38].The samples were crystallized after removing the tag with thrombin, which generated a four-residue (Gly–Ser–His–Met) peptide N-terminal to the native Asp5 residue.
Based on the APPL1 BAR-PH crystal structure, we find that, in general, the PH domain is more conserved than the BAR domain, and most of the highly conserved positions are located closer to the BAR−PH interface rather than the central region of the symmetric dimer.We have determined the crystal structure of full-length SV40 ST in complex with the full-length Aα subunit of PP2A. This structure reveals two novel zinc-binding motifs formed by the unique C-terminal domain, the structural linkage of the J and unique domain of ST, and the interaction site of ST with the structural A subunit. Together with our biochemical data, we provide a structural basis for understanding the tumorigenic activity of ST protein.
Crystal structure of the complex was determined by a combination of molecular replacement, using the PP2A A subunit structure as the searching model, and single-wavelength anomalous dispersion of intrinsic zinc atoms in ST, and was refined at 3.1 Å resolution (Table 1).
Secondary structures in the determined crystal structure are indicated above the aligned sequences. Solid and empty stars indicate residues interacting with PP2A A subunit using side-chain and main-chain, respectively. Solid and empty squares represent residues involved in interactions between the J domain and the unique domain with side-chain and main-chain atoms, respectively.
Structural comparison of the A-ST crystal structure with previously reported crystal structures of A, AC complex, and A-B56-C complexes [25,26,45,46] also support the conclusion that HEAT repeats 2–10 and HEAT repeats 13–15 form two relatively rigid blocks. However, there is substantial structural flexibility between these two structural blocks, due to the result of accumulative conformational changes in HEAT repeats 10–13 (Figures S1 and S2).
Here we report the crystal structure of SV40 ST in complex with the murine PP2A A subunit. It is striking that all four A-ST complexes in the asymmetric unit of our crystal lattice have essentially the same structure, except the flexible HEAT repeats 11–15 of the A subunit that are not involved in the A-ST interaction. This observation argues strongly that the ST structure as well as the A-ST interface observed in our crystal structure are independent of crystal packing and should be physiologically relevant.
In our ST crystal structure, instead of forming a binuclear cluster, these two zinc ions are located in two separate positions and form two novel zinc-binding motifs. The first and second cysteine clusters (residues 111–116, 138–143, respectively) form two zinc-binding motifs together with the conserved Cys103 and His122, respectively. Both zinc ions interact with helix α5 and stabilize the structure of the C-terminal unique domain.
However, the first zinc-binding motif does not interact with the A subunit of PP2A in the crystal structure. Instead, the crystal structure suggests that the first zinc-binding motif may directly interact with the C subunit near its active site, since the first zinc-binding motif is spatially close to the active site of the PP2A C subunit in the structural superposition of PP2A and A-ST complexes (Figure 5).
In addition to the inhibition of the phosphatase activity of the PP2A AC dimer, the J domain may also play a role in the oncogenic activity of ST by providing an additional binding site for Hsp70, even when in complex with the PP2A AC complex, as suggested by our crystal structure.Here, we report the first crystal structure of the C-terminal calponin homology domain (CHC) of α-parvin at 1.05 Å resolution and show that it is able to bind all the LD motifs, with some selectivity for LD1, LD2, and LD4.
We present the first high-resolution crystal structure of α-parvin-CHC and show that it interacts with all five paxillin LD motifs in solution. Three cocrystal structures of α-parvin-CHC with 20-residue peptides representing LD1, LD2, and LD4 allow us to characterize the interaction at atomic resolution and to highlight binding-induced conformational changes in α-parvin-CHC.
The crystal structure of α-parvin-CHC at 1.05 Å resolution was determined by molecular replacement using an ensemble of homologous type-1 CH domain structures as search model. Data collection and refinement statistics are summarized in Table 1. The refined structural model includes α-parvin residues 246–372 (molecule A) or 247–372 (molecule B) and represents the first high-resolution crystal structure of a type-5 CH domain (Figure 1B).
To elucidate the molecular basis for LD recognition by α-parvin-CHC, we cocrystallized α-parvin-CHC with peptides representing the high-affinity ligands LD1, LD2, and LD4. The corresponding structures at 2.1 Å, 1.8 Å, and 2.2 Å resolution, respectively, were solved by molecular replacement with the α-parvin-CHC apo structure (Table 1).
We have applied a combination of high-resolution X-ray crystallography and solution techniques to characterize the recognition of paxillin LD motifs by α-parvin. Our results demonstrate that full-length α-parvin contains a single LD binding site, formed by the N-linker helix, helix A, and helix G of the C-terminal type-5 CH domain.