The ChIP assays were performed in terms of A20, IκBα, or GAPDH promoters using antibodies and corresponding primers as described.
To substantiate this finding, we took advantage of the chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assay to examine whether binding of NF-κB to its endogenous promoter was influenced in vivo when the expression of UXT was diminished.
Consistently, deficiency of the endogenous UXT level resulted in considerable decreases in the amount of p65 associated with its endogenous cognate promoters upon TNF-α stimulation.
Given that UXT interacted with p65 and was essential to maintain the presence of NF-κB inside the nucleus, we wondered whether UXT was an integral component of the NF-κB transcriptional enhanceosome in vivo.
To address this possibility, we transfected HA-UXT into 293T cells and performed systematic ChIP assays on the promoters of A20 and IκBα as described in Materials and methods.
It turned out that UXT was indeed present within the NF-κB transcriptional enhanceosome.
Notably, its presence became much more prominent upon stimulation, which suggested that UXT was dynamically recruited onto the enhanceosome.
In addition, UXT had nothing to do with the transcription complex on the GAPDH promoter, indicating the selectivity of UXT action (Fig.
7 A).
We also stimulated 293T cells and performed similar ChIP assays to confirm again that endogenous UXT was recruited onto the NF-κB enhanceosome in response to stimulation (Fig.
7 B).
After 10 ng/ml TNF-α stimulation, ChIP assays were performed on A20, IκBα, or GAPDH promoters as described.Next, we studied in vivo histone binding by protein chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assays and observed that AIRE is found in complexes with a small fraction of histone H3 but not with H3K4me3.
By contrast, binding of ING2, used as a positive control, was detected for both H3 and H3K4me3 (supplementary Fig S7 online).
By using DNA ChIP analysis, we found that AIRE interacts with the insulin, involucrin and S100A8 promoter regions, but much less with the S100A10 and GAPDH promoters (Fig 5B).
(B) DNA ChIP analysis with anti-AIRE and IgG was performed from the stably transfected cells, as indicated.
The fold differences are normalized to input fractions and shown in comparison with the background level (=1) with each primer set in each condition.
The data are the averages of two independent experiments.
AIRE, autoimmune regulator; ChIP, chromatin immunoprecipitation; HEK, human embryonic kidney; PHD, plant homeodomain.Chromatin immunoprecipitation indicated that DDX3X is recruited to the IFN promoter upon infection with Listeria monocytogenes, suggesting a transcriptional mechanism of action.
DDX3X was found to be a TBK1 substrate in vitro and in vivo.
Phosphorylation-deficient mutants of DDX3X failed to synergize with TBK1 in their ability to stimulate the IFN promoter.
Overall, our data imply that DDX3X is a critical effector of TBK1 that is necessary for type I IFN induction.
To address this question, we used chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) and amplified the enhanceosome-binding region of the IFN-β promoter by quantitative PCR (Figure 5A).
IRF3, absent under non-stimulated conditions, was recruited to the IFN promoter upon infection with L.
monocytogenes (Figure 5B).
The specificity of this signal was ascertained using a control serum for ChIP.
ChIP suggests that DDX3X can be recruited to the IFN promoter, positioning DDX3X downstream of TBK1 at the level of IRF3.Cells were cultured for 24h and prepared using a ChIP assay kit from Upstate Biotechnology, Inc.
(Lake Placid, NY) according to the manufacturer's recommendations and preformed as previously describe 28.
Primers for the FOXO3a and SCO2 promoter are shown (Supplemental Methods) and their location is shown in supplemental Fig.
S3.
IP and transient transfection IP westerns were done as previously described 28.
Bands for all IPs were detected using an ECL protocol (Santa Cruz Biotechnology, Santa Cruz, CA) and visualized with Fuji Las-3000 intelligent darkbox (FujiFilm Medical Systems, Stamford, CT).
ChIP analysis showed that wt-SIRT3 cells have an increase in FOXO3a binding to upstream regulatory regions of gene promoters that each contain two canonical FOXO3a binding sites roughly 1 kb upstream of the transcription start site (supplemental Fig.
S3).
FOXO3a binding to both the MnSOD (Fig.3D, upper panel) and SCO2 (lower panel) promoters is increased in the wt-SIRT3, as compared to mt-SIRT3 cells.
These experiments imply that SIRT3 may increase FOXO3a DNA-binding.
(D) ChIP analysis of FOXO3a finding to the MnSOD and SCO2 promoters in HCT116 cells that overexpress either a wild-type or deacetylation null SIRT3 gene.Chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) experiments show that Ctk1 associates with RNApII throughout elongation (Kim et al, 2004a).
To determine whether Ctk1 regulates the disposition of basal transcription factors, ChIP experiments on three constitutively expressed genes (PMA1, ADH1, and PYK1) were performed as described previously (Kim et al, 2004a).
ChIP analysis using polyclonal antibodies against TBP (TATA-binding protein), TFIIB (Sua7), TFIIE (Tfa2) and TFIIH (Tfb1 and Kin28) generally confirmed the localization of these basal transcription factors at promoter regions in a wild-type (WT) background.
Consistent with this, when ChIP was carried out using strains deleted for the other subunits of the Ctk1 complex, including Ctk2 (cyclin subunit) or Ctk3 (accessory factor), TBP occupancy was again increased in the coding region of PMA1 (Supplementary Figure S1).
A second model that could explain the cross-linking of basal factors throughout a gene is that they fail to release from RNApII as it moves into productive elongation.
To test whether the extended pattern of basal factor cross-linking was completely coincident with RNApII, ChIP experiments were carried out at the termination site for PMA1 (Figure 3).
RNApII levels decreased between primer sets 7 and 9 in WT and ctk1Δ strains, indicative of transcription termination in both backgrounds (Ahn et al, 2004; Kim et al, 2004b).
TBP and TFIIH (Kin28) decrease in parallel with RNApII in ctk1Δ cells (Figure 3A), supporting the idea that these basal transcription factors travel with elongating RNApII.
ChIP analysis for TBP was performed in these strains to see whether aberrant cross-linking was observed.
As serine 2 phosphorylation is known to be required for cotranscriptional 3′-end processing (Ahn et al, 2004), we also tested for the polyadenylation factor Rna14 as a positive control (Figure 4B).
In accordance with our previous report, Rna14 cross-linking at the 3′-end of PMA1 was reduced to about one-third of WT levels.
This was not due to changes in overall RNApII elongation, as monitored by Rpb3.
However, TBP did not travel with RNApII in these CTD mutant strains.
We also expressed an RPB1 allele containing 14 repeats of the S2A substitution in the presence of the temperature-sensitive mutant rpb1-1 (Nonet et al, 1987; West and Corden, 1995).
At the nonpermissive temperature (37°C), where the only source of Rpb1 is the thermostable S2A mutant, there was no indication of basal factor spreading (Figure 4D).
Taken together, these results argue that CTD serine 2 phosphorylation does not regulate the dissociation of basal transcription factors from elongating RNApII.
As in vitro experiments with mammalian Cdk9 (Wada et al, 1998; Chao and Price, 2001) and ChIP experiments with Ctk1 (Cho et al, 2001) also suggest that these kinases function after initiation, we modified the protocol.
There are at least two possible variations of this model that could explain the ChIP results (Figure 5G).
In the first, basal factors release from the promoter in ctk1Δ cells, but remain associated with the polymerase as it moves through the gene body.
In the second, RNApII actually remains tethered to the basal factors at the promoter while transcribing.
This would result in the transcribing polymerase ‘pulling' the transcribed region past basal factors, thereby allowing cross-linking with downstream sequences.
Chromatin immunoprecipitation was performed as described previously (Ahn et al, 2004).
For precipitation of TAP-tagged proteins, 10 μl of rabbit IgG agarose (Sigma) was incubated with chromatin solution overnight at 4°C.
For Rpb1 (BWG16 Covance), Sua7, TBP, Kin28, Tfb1, Tfa2, and Rap1 (y-300, Santa Cruz) immunoprecipitations, the antibodies were preincubated with protein A-sepharose CL-4B (Amersham) for 1 h at room temperature and then incubated with chromatin solution overnight at 4°C.
For Rpb3 immunoprecipitation, antibody (1Y26, NeoClone) was preincubated with protein G-sepharose (Amersham).
PCR amplification was performed with primer pairs as described (Ahn et al, 2004).
PCR signals were quantitated by Fujix PhosphoImager.
To control for amplification efficiency and label incorporation with different primers, the ratio of each gene-specific product to that of a non-transcribed region of chromosome V was calculated from the input sample signals.
The signal for each specific gene primer in the immunoprecipitation was then divided by this ratio to convert the signal to normalized units.
This value was divided by the immunoprecipitation signal of the non-transcribed control product to determine the fold enrichment of the ChIP over background signals.
As this number is a ratio, a value of 1 represents ‘no signal' (i.e., a signal equal to background).
(A) ChIP analysis was carried out using Rpb3–TAP (YSB956) or Tfg1–TAP tagged strains (YSB925) +/− Ctk1.
Similar cross-linking patterns were seen with Tfg2–TAP (YSB926) or Tfg3–TAP (YSB927) strains (not shown).
(A) ChIP analyses were carried out with antibodies against Rpb3, TBP, or Kin28 in WT (YSB726) and ctk1Δ (YSB854) backgrounds.