Translational fusions with the green fluorescent protein showed that STM is not nuclear by default.
According to bimolecular fluorescence complementation, STM is targeted into the nuclear compartment through heterodimerization with BLH partner proteins, which are expressed in distinct SAM domains from the center to the periphery.
The ORFs of genes encoding candidate partner proteins (ATH1, BHL3 or BHL9) and STM were cloned in-frame into the transient expression vectors pUC-SPYCE and pUC-SPYNE, respectively, through the BamHI site (31), containing either the N- or C-terminal parts of the coding regions of the yellow fluorescent protein (YFP). As controls, green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusions with STM and BLH partner proteins were created in the vector pRTΩNotI/AscI (32). To create NLS-GFP-STM, a synthetic oligonucleotide providing the virD2 nuclear localization signal (NLS) (33) was inserted into a NcoI site at the translation start of the GFP ORF. For transient expression in leek epidermal cells, 50 µl of tungsten particles (1.1 µm diameter, BioRad) were mixed with 10–15 µg of plasmid DNA, 60 µl of 2.2 M CaCl2 and 20 µl of 0.1 M spermidine in a total volume of 150 µl. The DNA was precipitated on the tungsten particles at room temperature by adding 200 µl ethanol, for 3 min with continuous shaking. After brief centrifugation, the tungsten pellet was washed three times in 100% (v/v) ethanol before being resuspended in 30 µl of 100% (v/v) ethanol. Aliquots (10 µl) of DNA-coated tungsten were spotted on macro carriers and used to transform leek epidermal cells at 1100 psi rupture disc bursting pressure using a Biolistic PDS-1000-He apparatus (BioRad) The bombarded tissue was kept in Petri dishes on damp filter paper for 12–16 h in the dark and YFP or GFP fluorescence was visualized using a LEICA MZFLIII stereomicroscope.
The method of choice to prove a physical interaction between candidate partner proteins in plant cells is BiFC (31,36).
As a potential transcription factor, STM was expected to direct GFP fluorescence into the plant cell nucleus. However, both fusion proteins, GFP-STM and STM-GFP remained in the cytoplasm (Figure 1B and C).
The principle of BiFC is the formation of a fluorescent complex by fragments of the enhanced YFP brought together by the association of two interaction partners (31,36). To verify STM interaction partners we constructed translational fusions between the N- or the C-terminal YFP sub-domains and the full-length STM protein or individual full-length BLH partner proteins. Optimal combinations of chimeric gene constructs are indicated in Figure 4 above each corresponding experiment. Chimeric genes were co-delivered into leek epidermal cells by bombardment of tungsten particles double-loaded with two appropriate chimeric gene constructs. Any detectable fluorescence was dependent on the combination of the C-terminal with the N-terminal YFP sub-domain fused to STM or BLH partner proteins. In contrast, the fusion of the C- or the N-terminal YFP sub-domain to the STM protein and their co-bombardment in plant cells gave no fluorescence (data not shown). BiFC therefore provided no evidence for the formation of STM homodimers but substantiated the formation of STM/BLH heterodimers.
In contrast to results obtained with STM-GFP fusions, however, the BiFC signal exhibited a high preference for the nucleus whereas fluorescence was low in the cytoplasm. The BiFC results therefore, confirm that full-length STM and BLH proteins interact in plant cells, but more notably, that BLH/STM heterodimers are efficiently incorporated into the nuclear compartment.
Reminiscent, however, of the MEIS/PBC situation in animals, the GFP and BiFC data show that the TALE-HD transcription factor STM is targeted into the nuclear compartment through interaction with three BLH partner proteins, which are members of the non-MEINOX class of TALE-HD proteins in plants.
The BELL domain is essential for the interaction of STM with BLH partner proteins. BiFC experiments with BLH3 deletion polypeptides (BLH3 ΔC or BELLBLH3 see schematic drawing in Figure 4G) demonstrated that amino acid sequences upstream and downstream of the BELL domain including the homeodomain are dispensable for heterodimerization with STM (Figure 4H and I). BiFC fluorescence still exerted a preference for the nucleus if sequences C-terminal to the BELL domain including the DNA-binding homeodomain were deleted (BLH3 ΔC, Figure 4H). In contrast, YFP fluorescence reconstituted with the isolated BELL domain (BELLBLH3 in Figure 4I) remained mainly cytoplasmic. An effective NLS therefore must be located in the BLH3 protein N-terminal to its BELL domain. In the STM protein, the MEINOXSTM domain is sufficient to interact with full-length BLH3 (Figure 4J). However, we have been unable to reconstitute YFP fluorescence in BiFC experiments with the isolated MEINOXSTM and BELLBLH3 domains although several compatible N- or C-terminal combinations with each YFP sub-domain were tested. One explanation for this may be that the relative arrangement of YFP sub-domains sterically interferes with their functional association.
Co-immunoprecipitation and BiFC experiments performed in the course of this study show that the MEINOXSTM and the BELLBLH3 domains are sufficient for interaction in vitro and in planta.